Computational complexity of the quantum separability problem<sep>Ever since entanglement was identified as a computational and cryptographic resource, researchers have sought efficient ways to tell whether a given density matrix represents an unentangled, or separable, state. This paper gives the first systematic and comprehensive treatment of this (bipartite) quantum separability problem, focusing on its deterministic (as opposed to randomized) computational complexity. First, I review the one-sided tests for separability, paying particular attention to the semidefinite programming methods. Then, I discuss various ways of formulating the quantum separability problem, from exact to approximate formulations, the latter of which are the paper's main focus. I then give a thorough treatment of the problem's relationship with the complexity classes NP, NP-complete, and co-NP. I also discuss extensions of Gurvits' NP-hardness result to strong NP-hardness of certain related problems. A major open question is whether the NP-contained formulation (QSEP) of the quantum separability problem is Karp-NP-complete; QSEP may be the first natural example of a problem that is Turing-NP-complete but not Karp-NP-complete. Finally, I survey all the proposed (deterministic) algorithms for the quantum separability problem, including the bounded search for symmetric extensions (via semidefinite programming), based on the recent quantum de Finetti theorem; and the entanglement-witness search (via interior-point algorithms and global optimization). These two algorithms have the lowest complexity, with the latter being the best under advice of asymptotically optimal point-coverings of the sphere.
Beyond i.i.d. in Quantum Information Theory<sep>The information spectrum approach gives general formulae for optimal rates of codes in many areas of information theory. In this paper the quantum spectral divergence rates are defined and properties of the rates are derived. The entropic rates, conditional entropic rates, and spectral mutual information rates are then defined in terms of the spectral divergence rates. Properties including subadditivity, chain rules, Araki-Lieb inequalities, and monotonicity are then explored.
On the Role of Shared Entanglement<sep>Despite the apparent similarity between shared randomness and shared entanglement in the context of Communication Complexity, our understanding of the latter is not as good as of the former. In particular, there is no known "entanglement analogue" for the famous theorem by Newman, saying that the number of shared random bits required for solving any communication problem can be at most logarithmic in the input length (i.e., using more than O(log n) shared random bits would not reduce the complexity of an optimal solution). In this paper we prove that the same is not true for entanglement. We establish a wide range of tight (up to a polylogarithmic factor) entanglement vs. communication tradeoffs for relational problems. The low end is: for any t>2, reducing shared entanglement from log^t(n) to o(log^{t-2}(n)) qubits can increase the communication required for solving a problem almost exponentially, from O(log^t(n)) to Omega( sqrt n). The high end is: for any eps>0, reducing shared entanglement from n^{1- eps}log(n) to o(n^{1- eps}/log(n)) can increase the required communication from O(n^{1- eps}log(n)) to Omega(n^{1- eps/2}/log(n)). The upper bounds are demonstrated via protocols which are exact and work in the e{simultaneous message passing model}, while the lower bounds hold for e{bounded-error protocols}, even in the more powerful e{model of 1-way communication}. Our protocols use shared EPR pairs while the lower bounds apply to any sort of prior entanglement. We base the lower bounds on a strong direct product theorem for communication complexity of a certain class of relational problems. We believe that the theorem might have applications outside the scope of this work.
Quantum Versus Classical Proofs and Advice<sep>This paper studies whether quantum proofs are more powerful than classical proofs, or in complexity terms, whether QMA=QCMA. We prove three results about this question. First, we give a "quantum oracle separation" between QMA and QCMA. More concretely, we show that any quantum algorithm needs $ Omega( sqrt{2^n/(m+1)})$ queries to find an $n$-qubit "marked state" $ lvert psi rangle$, even if given an $m$-bit classical description of $ lvert psi rangle$ together with a quantum black box that recognizes $ lvert psi rangle$. Second, we give an explicit QCMA protocol that nearly achieves this lower bound. Third, we show that, in the one previously-known case where quantum proofs seemed to provide an exponential advantage, classical proofs are basically just as powerful. In particular, Watrous gave a QMA protocol for verifying non-membership in finite groups. Under plausible group-theoretic assumptions, we give a QCMA protocol for the same problem. Even with no assumptions, our protocol makes only polynomially many queries to the group oracle. We end with some conjectures about quantum versus classical oracles, and about the possibility of a classical oracle separation between QMA and QCMA.
Clifford Code Constructions of Operator Quantum Error Correcting Codes<sep>Recently, operator quantum error-correcting codes have been proposed to unify and generalize decoherence free subspaces, noiseless subsystems, and quantum error-correcting codes. This note introduces a natural construction of such codes in terms of Clifford codes, an elegant generalization of stabilizer codes due to Knill. Character-theoretic methods are used to derive a simple method to construct operator quantum error-correcting codes from any classical additive code over a finite field.
Strongly Universal Quantum Turing Machines and Invariance of Kolmogorov Complexity<sep>We show that there exists a universal quantum Turing machine (UQTM) that can simulate every other QTM until the other QTM has halted and then halt itself with probability one. This extends work by Bernstein and Vazirani who have shown that there is a UQTM that can simulate every other QTM for an arbitrary, but preassigned number of time steps. As a corollary to this result, we give a rigorous proof that quantum Kolmogorov complexity as defined by Berthiaume et al. is invariant, i.e. depends on the choice of the UQTM only up to an additive constant. Our proof is based on a new mathematical framework for QTMs, including a thorough analysis of their halting behaviour. We introduce the notion of mutually orthogonal halting spaces and show that the information encoded in an input qubit string can always be effectively decomposed into a classical and a quantum part.
Invertible Quantum Operations and Perfect Encryption of Quantum States<sep>In this note, we characterize the form of an invertible quantum operation, i.e., a completely positive trace preserving linear transformation (a CPTP map) whose inverse is also a CPTP map. The precise form of such maps becomes important in contexts such as self-testing and encryption. We show that these maps correspond to applying a unitary transformation to the state along with an ancilla initialized to a fixed state, which may be mixed. The characterization of invertible quantum operations implies that one-way schemes for encrypting quantum states using a classical key may be slightly more general than the ``private quantum channels'' studied by Ambainis, Mosca, Tapp and de Wolf (FOCS 2000). Nonetheless, we show that their results, most notably a lower bound of 2n bits of key to encrypt n quantum bits, extend in a straightforward manner to the general case.
Quantum Information and Entropy<sep>Thermodynamic entropy is not an entirely satisfactory measure of information of a quantum state. This entropy for an unknown pure state is zero, although repeated measurements on copies of such a pure state do communicate information. In view of this, we propose a new measure for the informational entropy of a quantum state that includes information in the pure states and the thermodynamic entropy. The origin of information is explained in terms of an interplay between unitary and non-unitary evolution. Such complementarity is also at the basis of the so-called interaction-free measurement.
Using quantum oblivious transfer to cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment<sep>It is well known that unconditionally secure bit commitment is impossible even in the quantum world. In this paper a weak variant of quantum bit commitment, introduced independently by Aharonov et al. [STOC, 2000] and Hardy and Kent [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 (2004)] is investigated. In this variant, the parties require some nonzero probability of detecting a cheating, i.e. if Bob, who commits a bit b to Alice, changes his mind during the revealing phase then Alice detects the cheating with a positive probability (we call this property binding); and if Alice gains information about the committed bit before the revealing phase then Bob discovers this with positive probability (sealing). In our paper we give quantum bit commitment scheme that is simultaneously binding and sealing and we show that if a cheating gives epsilon advantage to a malicious Alice then Bob can detect the cheating with a probability Omega(epsilon^2). If Bob cheats then Alice's probability of detecting the cheating is greater than some fixed constant lambda>0. This improves the probabilities of cheating detections shown by Hardy and Kent and the scheme by Aharonov et al. who presented a protocol that is either binding or sealing, but not simultaneously both. To construct a cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment scheme we use a protocol for a weak quantum one-out-of-two oblivious transfer.
The BQP-hardness of approximating the Jones Polynomial<sep>A celebrated important result due to Freedman, Larsen and Wang states that providing additive approximations of the Jones polynomial at the k'th root of unity, for constant k=5 and k>6, is BQP-hard. Together with the algorithmic results of Freedman et al and Aharonov et al, this gives perhaps the most natural BQP-complete problem known today and motivates further study of the topic. In this paper we focus on the universality proof; we extend the universality result of Freedman et al to k's that grow polynomially with the number of strands and crossings in the link, thus extending the BQP-hardness of Jones polynomial approximations to all values for which the AJL algorithm applies, proving that for all those values, the problems are BQP-complete. As a side benefit, we derive a fairly elementary proof of the Freedman et al density result, without referring to advanced results from Lie algebra representation theory, making this important result accessible to computer science audience. We make use of two general lemmas we prove, the Bridge lemma and the Decoupling lemma, which provide tools for establishing density of subgroups in SU(n). Those tools seem to be of independent interest in more general contexts of proving quantum universality. Our result also implies a completely classical statement, that the_multiplicative_ approximations of the Jones polynomial, at exactly the same values, are #P-hard, via a recent result due to Kuperberg. Since the first publication of those results in their preliminary form (arXiv:quant-ph/0605181v2), the methods we present here were used in several other contexts. This paper is an improved and extended version of the original results, and also includes discussions of the developments since then.
Maximally Non-Local and Monogamous Quantum Correlations<sep>We introduce a version of the chained Bell inequality for an arbitrary number of measurement outcomes, and use it to give a simple proof that the maximally entangled state of two d dimensional quantum systems has no local component. That is, if we write its quantum correlations as a mixture of local correlations and general (not necessarily quantum) correlations, the coefficient of the local correlations must be zero. This suggests an experimental programme to obtain as good an upper bound as possible on the fraction of local states, and provides a lower bound on the amount of classical communication needed to simulate a maximally entangled state in dxd dimensions. We also prove that the quantum correlations violating the inequality are monogamous among non-signalling correlations, and hence can be used for quantum key distribution secure against post-quantum (but non-signalling) eavesdroppers.
Classical simulators of quantum computers and no-go theorems<sep>It is discussed, why classical simulators of quantum computers escape from some no-go claims like Kochen-Specker, Bell, or recent Conway-Kochen "Free Will" theorems.
Full security of quantum key distribution from no-signaling constraints<sep>We analyze a cryptographic protocol for generating a distributed secret key from correlations that violate a Bell inequality by a sufficient amount, and prove its security against eavesdroppers, constrained only by the assumption that any information accessible to them must be compatible with the non-signaling principle. The claim holds with respect to the state-of-the-art security definition used in cryptography, known as universally-composable security. The non-signaling assumption only refers to the statistics of measurement outcomes depending on the choices of measurements; hence security is independent of the internal workings of the devices --- they do not even need to follow the laws of quantum theory. This is relevant for practice as a correct and complete modeling of realistic devices is generally impossible. The techniques developed are general and can be applied to other Bell inequality-based protocols. In particular, we provide a scheme for estimating Bell-inequality violations when the samples are not independent and identically distributed.
Exponential Separation of Quantum and Classical Online Space Complexity<sep>Although quantum algorithms realizing an exponential time speed-up over the best known classical algorithms exist, no quantum algorithm is known performing computation using less space resources than classical algorithms. In this paper, we study, for the first time explicitly, space-bounded quantum algorithms for computational problems where the input is given not as a whole, but bit by bit. We show that there exist such problems that a quantum computer can solve using exponentially less work space than a classical computer. More precisely, we introduce a very natural and simple model of a space-bounded quantum online machine and prove an exponential separation of classical and quantum online space complexity, in the bounded-error setting and for a total language. The language we consider is inspired by a communication problem (the set intersection function) that Buhrman, Cleve and Wigderson used to show an almost quadratic separation of quantum and classical bounded-error communication complexity. We prove that, in the framework of online space complexity, the separation becomes exponential.
On the quantum analogue of Galileo's leaning tower experiment<sep>The quantum analogue of Galileo's leaning tower experiment is revisited using wave packets evolving under the gravitational potential. We first calculate the position detection probabilities for particles projected upwards against gravity around the classical turning point and also around the point of initial projection, which exhibit mass dependence at both these points. We then compute the mean arrival time of freely falling particles using the quantum probability current, which also turns out to be mass dependent. The mass dependence of both the position detection probabilities and the mean arrival time vanish in the limit of large mass. Thus, compatibility between the weak equivalence principle and quantum mechanics is recovered in the macroscopic limit of the latter.
`Plausibilities of plausibilities': an approach through circumstances<sep>Probability-like parameters appearing in some statistical models, and their prior distributions, are reinterpreted through the notion of `circumstance', a term which stands for any piece of knowledge that is useful in assigning a probability and that satisfies some additional logical properties. The idea, which can be traced to Laplace and Jaynes, is that the usual inferential reasonings about the probability-like parameters of a statistical model can be conceived as reasonings about equivalence classes of `circumstances' - viz., real or hypothetical pieces of knowledge, like e.g. physical hypotheses, that are useful in assigning a probability and satisfy some additional logical properties - that are uniquely indexed by the probability distributions they lead to.
The one-way communication complexity of the Boolean Hidden Matching Problem<sep>We give a tight lower bound of Omega( sqrt{n}) for the randomized one-way communication complexity of the Boolean Hidden Matching Problem [BJK04]. Since there is a quantum one-way communication complexity protocol of O( log n) qubits for this problem, we obtain an exponential separation of quantum and classical one-way communication complexity for partial functions. A similar result was independently obtained by Gavinsky, Kempe, de Wolf [GKdW06]. Our lower bound is obtained by Fourier analysis, using the Fourier coefficients inequality of Kahn Kalai and Linial [KKL88].
Exponential Separation of Quantum and Classical One-Way Communication Complexity for a Boolean Function<sep>We give an exponential separation between one-way quantum and classical communication complexity for a Boolean function. Earlier such a separation was known only for a relation. A very similar result was obtained earlier but independently by Kerenidis and Raz [KR06]. Our version of the result gives an example in the bounded storage model of cryptography, where the key is secure if the adversary has a certain amount of classical storage, but is completely insecure if he has a similar amount of quantum storage.
Search via Quantum Walk<sep>We propose a new method for designing quantum search algorithms for finding a "marked" element in the state space of a classical Markov chain. The algorithm is based on a quantum walk 'a la Szegedy (2004) that is defined in terms of the Markov chain. The main new idea is to apply quantum phase estimation to the quantum walk in order to implement an approximate reflection operator. This operator is then used in an amplitude amplification scheme. As a result we considerably expand the scope of the previous approaches of Ambainis (2004) and Szegedy (2004). Our algorithm combines the benefits of these approaches in terms of being able to find marked elements, incurring the smaller cost of the two, and being applicable to a larger class of Markov chains. In addition, it is conceptually simple and avoids some technical difficulties in the previous analyses of several algorithms based on quantum walk.
Secure Controlled Teleportation<sep>Several protocols for controlled teleportation were suggested by Yang, Chu, and Han [PRA 70, 022329 (2004)]. In these protocols, Alice teleports qubits (in an unknown state) to Bob iff a controller allows it. We view this problem in the perspective of secure multi-party quantum computation. We show that the suggested entanglement-efficient protocols for $m$-qubit controlled teleportation are open to cheating; Alice and Bob may teleport $(m-1)$-qubits of quantum information, out of the controllers' control. We conjecture that the straightforward protocol for controlled teleportation, which requires each controller to hold $m$ entangled qubits, is optimal. We prove this conjecture for a limited, but interesting, subset of protocols.
Quantum Pattern Retrieval by Qubit Networks with Hebb Interactions<sep>Qubit networks with long-range interactions inspired by the Hebb rule can be used as quantum associative memories. Starting from a uniform superposition, the unitary evolution generated by these interactions drives the network through a quantum phase transition at a critical computation time, after which ferromagnetic order guarantees that a measurement retrieves the stored memory. The maximum memory capacity p of these qubit networks is reached at a memory density p/n=1.
On the Impossibility of a Quantum Sieve Algorithm for Graph Isomorphism<sep>It is known that any quantum algorithm for Graph Isomorphism that works within the framework of the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) must perform highly entangled measurements across Omega(n log n) coset states. One of the only known models for how such a measurement could be carried out efficiently is Kuperberg's algorithm for the HSP in the dihedral group, in which quantum states are adaptively combined and measured according to the decomposition of tensor products into irreducible representations. This ``quantum sieve'' starts with coset states, and works its way down towards representations whose probabilities differ depending on, for example, whether the hidden subgroup is trivial or nontrivial. In this paper we give strong evidence that no such approach can succeed for Graph Isomorphism. Specifically, we consider the natural reduction of Graph Isomorphism to the HSP over the the wreath product S_n wr Z_2. We show, modulo a group-theoretic conjecture regarding the asymptotic characters of the symmetric group, that no matter what rule we use to adaptively combine quantum states, there is a constant b > 0 such that no algorithm in this family can solve Graph Isomorphism in e^{b sqrt{n}} time. In particular, such algorithms are essentially no better than the best known classical algorithms, whose running time is e^{O(sqrt{n log n})}.
Group Theoretical Formulation of Quantum Partial Search Algorithm<sep>Searching and sorting used as a subroutine in many important algorithms. Quantum algorithm can find a target item in a database faster than any classical algorithm. One can trade accuracy for speed and find a part of the database (a block) containing the target item even faster, this is partial search. An example is the following: exact address of the target item is given by a sequence of many bits, but we need to know only some of them. More generally partial search considers the following problem: a database is separated into several blocks. We want to find a block with the target item, not the target item itself. In this paper we reformulate quantum partial search algorithm in terms of group theory.
Ergodic Classical-Quantum Channels: Structure and Coding Theorems<sep>We consider ergodic causal classical-quantum channels (cq-channels) which additionally have a decaying input memory. In the first part we develop some structural properties of ergodic cq-channels and provide equivalent conditions for ergodicity. In the second part we prove the coding theorem with weak converse for causal ergodic cq-channels with decaying input memory. Our proof is based on the possibility to introduce joint input-output state for the cq-channels and an application of the Shannon-McMillan theorem for ergodic quantum states. In the last part of the paper it is shown how this result implies coding theorem for the classical capacity of a class of causal ergodic quantum channels.
Subsystem Codes<sep>We investigate various aspects of operator quantum error-correcting codes or, as we prefer to call them, subsystem codes. We give various methods to derive subsystem codes from classical codes. We give a proof for the existence of subsystem codes using a counting argument similar to the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound. We derive linear programming bounds and other upper bounds. We answer the question whether or not there exist [[n,n-2d+2,r>0,d]]<sub>q</sub> subsystem codes. Finally, we compare stabilizer and subsystem codes with respect to the required number of syndrome qudits.
Quantum List Decoding of Classical Block Codes of Polynomially Small Rate from Quantumly Corrupted Codewords<sep>Given a classical error-correcting block code, the task of quantum list decoding is to produce from any quantumly corrupted codeword a short list containing all messages whose codewords exhibit high "presence" in the quantumly corrupted codeword. Efficient quantum list decoders have been used to prove a quantum hardcore property of classical codes. However, the code rates of all known families of efficiently quantum list-decodable codes are, unfortunately, too small for other practical applications. To improve those known code rates, we prove that a specific code family of polynomially small code rate over a fixed code alphabet, obtained by concatenating generalized Reed-Solomon codes as outer codes with Hadamard codes as inner codes, has an efficient quantum list-decoding algorithm if its codewords have relatively high codeword presence in a given quantumly corrupted codeword. As an immediate application, we use the quantum list decodability of this code family to solve a certain form of quantum search problems in polynomial time. When the codeword presence becomes smaller, in contrast, we show that the quantum list decodability of generalized Reed-Solomon codes with high confidence is closely related to the efficient solvability of the following two problems: the noisy polynomial interpolation problem and the bounded distance vector problem. Moreover, assuming that NP is not included in BQP, we also prove that no efficient quantum list decoder exists for the generalized Reed-Solomon codes.
Merlin-Arthur Games and Stoquastic Complexity<sep>MA is a class of decision problems for which `yes'-instances have a proof that can be efficiently checked by a classical randomized algorithm. We prove that MA has a natural complete problem which we call the stoquastic k-SAT problem. This is a matrix-valued analogue of the satisfiability problem in which clauses are k-qubit projectors with non-negative matrix elements, while a satisfying assignment is a vector that belongs to the space spanned by these projectors. Stoquastic k-SAT is the first non-trivial example of a MA-complete problem. We also study the minimum eigenvalue problem for local stoquastic Hamiltonians that was introduced in quant-ph/0606140, stoquastic LH-MIN. A new complexity class StoqMA is introduced so that stoquastic LH-MIN is StoqMA-complete. Lastly, we consider the average LH-MIN problem for local stoquastic Hamiltonians that depend on a random or `quenched disorder' parameter, stoquastic AV-LH-MIN. We prove that stoquastic AV-LH-MIN is contained in the complexity class AM, the class of decision problems for which yes-instances have a randomized interactive proof with two-way communication between prover and verifier.
Approximate Randomization of Quantum States With Fewer Bits of Key<sep>Randomization of quantum states is the quantum analogue of the classical one-time pad. We present an improved, efficient construction of an approximately randomizing map that uses O(d/epsilon^2) Pauli operators to map any d-dimensional state to a state that is within trace distance epsilon of the completely mixed state. Our bound is a log d factor smaller than that of Hayden, Leung, Shor, and Winter (2004), and Ambainis and Smith (2004). Then, we show that a random sequence of essentially the same number of unitary operators, chosen from an appropriate set, with high probability form an approximately randomizing map for d-dimensional states. Finally, we discuss the optimality of these schemes via connections to different notions of pseudorandomness, and give a new lower bound for small epsilon.
Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography using Two-Way Quantum Communication<sep>Quantum cryptography has been recently extended to continuous variable systems, e.g., the bosonic modes of the electromagnetic field. In particular, several cryptographic protocols have been proposed and experimentally implemented using bosonic modes with Gaussian statistics. Such protocols have shown the possibility of reaching very high secret-key rates, even in the presence of strong losses in the quantum communication channel. Despite this robustness to loss, their security can be affected by more general attacks where extra Gaussian noise is introduced by the eavesdropper. In this general scenario we show a "hardware solution" for enhancing the security thresholds of these protocols. This is possible by extending them to a two-way quantum communication where subsequent uses of the quantum channel are suitably combined. In the resulting two-way schemes, one of the honest parties assists the secret encoding of the other with the chance of a non-trivial superadditive enhancement of the security thresholds. Such results enable the extension of quantum cryptography to more complex quantum communications.
Toward a general theory of quantum games<sep>We study properties of quantum strategies, which are complete specifications of a given party's actions in any multiple-round interaction involving the exchange of quantum information with one or more other parties. In particular, we focus on a representation of quantum strategies that generalizes the Choi-Jamio{ l}kowski representation of quantum operations. This new representation associates with each strategy a positive semidefinite operator acting only on the tensor product of its input and output spaces. Various facts about such representations are established, and two applications are discussed: the first is a new and conceptually simple proof of Kitaev's lower bound for strong coin-flipping, and the second is a proof of the exact characterization QRG = EXP of the class of problems having quantum refereed games.
A Tight High-Order Entropic Quantum Uncertainty Relation With Applications<sep>We derive a new entropic quantum uncertainty relation involving min-entropy. The relation is tight and can be applied in various quantum-cryptographic settings. Protocols for quantum 1-out-of-2 Oblivious Transfer and quantum Bit Commitment are presented and the uncertainty relation is used to prove the security of these protocols in the bounded quantum-storage model according to new strong security definitions. As another application, we consider the realistic setting of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) against quantum-memory-bounded eavesdroppers. The uncertainty relation allows to prove the security of QKD protocols in this setting while tolerating considerably higher error rates compared to the standard model with unbounded adversaries. For instance, for the six-state protocol with one-way communication, a bit-flip error rate of up to 17% can be tolerated (compared to 13% in the standard model). Our uncertainty relation also yields a lower bound on the min-entropy key uncertainty against known-plaintext attacks when quantum ciphers are composed. Previously, the key uncertainty of these ciphers was only known with respect to Shannon entropy.
Deciding whether a quantum state has secret correlations is an NP-complete problem<sep>From the NP-hardness of the quantum separability problem and the relation between bipartite entanglement and the secret key correlations, it is shown that the problem deciding whether a given quantum state has secret correlations in it or not is in NP-complete.
How a Clebsch-Gordan Transform Helps to Solve the Heisenberg Hidden Subgroup Problem<sep>It has recently been shown that quantum computers can efficiently solve the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem, a problem whose classical query complexity is exponential. This quantum algorithm was discovered within the framework of using pretty-good measurements for obtaining optimal measurements in the hidden subgroup problem. Here we show how to solve the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem using arguments based instead on the symmetry of certain hidden subgroup states. The symmetry we consider leads naturally to a unitary transform known as the Clebsch-Gordan transform over the Heisenberg group. This gives a new representation theoretic explanation for the pretty-good measurement derived algorithm for efficiently solving the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem and provides evidence that Clebsch-Gordan transforms over finite groups are a new primitive in quantum algorithm design.
A father protocol for quantum broadcast channels<sep>A new protocol for quantum broadcast channels based on the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol is presented. The protocol yields an achievable rate region for entanglement-assisted transmission of quantum information through a quantum broadcast channel that can be considered the quantum analogue of Marton's region for classical broadcast channels. The protocol can be adapted to yield achievable rate regions for unassisted quantum communication and for entanglement-assisted classical communication; in the case of unassisted transmission, the region we obtain has no independent constraint on the sum rate, only on the individual transmission rates. Regularized versions of all three rate regions are provably optimal.
Lineal: A linear-algebraic Lambda-calculus<sep>We provide a computational definition of the notions of vector space and bilinear functions. We use this result to introduce a minimal language combining higher-order computation and linear algebra. This language extends the Lambda-calculus with the possibility to make arbitrary linear combinations of terms alpha.t + beta.u. We describe how to "execute" this language in terms of a few rewrite rules, and justify them through the two fundamental requirements that the language be a language of linear operators, and that it be higher-order. We mention the perspectives of this work in the field of quantum computation, whose circuits we show can be easily encoded in the calculus. Finally, we prove the confluence of the entire calculus.
Quantum Quasi-Cyclic LDPC Codes<sep>In this paper, a construction of a pair of "regular" quasi-cyclic LDPC codes as ingredient codes for a quantum error-correcting code is proposed. That is, we find quantum regular LDPC codes with various weight distributions. Furthermore our proposed codes have lots of variations for length, code rate. These codes are obtained by a descrete mathematical characterization for model matrices of quasi-cyclic LDPC codes. Our proposed codes achieve a bounded distance decoding (BDD) bound, or known as VG bound, and achieve a lower bound of the code length.
Quantum Convolutional Codes Derived From Reed-Solomon and Reed-Muller Codes<sep>Convolutional stabilizer codes promise to make quantum communication more reliable with attractive online encoding and decoding algorithms. This paper introduces a new approach to convolutional stabilizer codes based on direct limit constructions. Two families of quantum convolutional codes are derived from generalized Reed-Solomon codes and from Reed- Muller codes. A Singleton bound for pure convolutional stabilizer codes is given.
A presentation of Quantum Logic based on an "and then" connective<sep>When a physicist performs a quantic measurement, new information about the system at hand is gathered. This paper studies the logical properties of how this new information is combined with previous information. It presents Quantum Logic as a propositional logic under two connectives: negation and the "and then" operation that combines old and new information. The "and then" connective is neither commutative nor associative. Many properties of this logic are exhibited, and some small elegant subset is shown to imply all the properties considered. No independence or completeness result is claimed. Classical physical systems are exactly characterized by the commutativity, the associativity, or the monotonicity of the "and then" connective. Entailment is defined in this logic and can be proved to be a partial order. In orthomodular lattices, the operation proposed by Finch (1969) satisfies all the properties studied in this paper. All properties satisfied by Finch's operation in modular lattices are valid in Hilbert Space Quantum Logic. It is not known whether all properties of Hilbert Space Quantum Logic are satisfied by Finch's operation in modular lattices. Non-commutative, non-associative algebraic structures generalizing Boolean algebras are defined, ideals are characterized and a homomorphism theorem is proved.
Using quantum key distribution for cryptographic purposes: a survey<sep>The appealing feature of quantum key distribution (QKD), from a cryptographic viewpoint, is the ability to prove the information-theoretic security (ITS) of the established keys. As a key establishment primitive, QKD however does not provide a standalone security service in its own: the secret keys established by QKD are in general then used by a subsequent cryptographic applications for which the requirements, the context of use and the security properties can vary. It is therefore important, in the perspective of integrating QKD in security infrastructures, to analyze how QKD can be combined with other cryptographic primitives. The purpose of this survey article, which is mostly centered on European research results, is to contribute to such an analysis. We first review and compare the properties of the existing key establishment techniques, QKD being one of them. We then study more specifically two generic scenarios related to the practical use of QKD in cryptographic infrastructures: 1) using QKD as a key renewal technique for a symmetric cipher over a point-to-point link; 2) using QKD in a network containing many users with the objective of offering any-to-any key establishment service. We discuss the constraints as well as the potential interest of using QKD in these contexts. We finally give an overview of challenges relative to the development of QKD technology that also constitute potential avenues for cryptographic research.
Turning the Liar paradox into a metatheorem of Basic logic<sep>We show that self-reference can be formalized in Basic logic by means of the new connective @, called "entanglement". In fact, the property of non-idempotence of the connective @ is a metatheorem, which states that a self-entangled sentence loses its own identity. This prevents having self-referential paradoxes in the corresponding metalanguage. In this context, we introduce a generalized definition of self-reference, which is needed to deal with the multiplicative connectives of substructural logics.
A decoupling approach to the quantum capacity<sep>We give a short proof that the coherent information is an achievable rate for the transmission of quantum information through a noisy quantum channel. Our method is to produce random codes by performing a unitarily covariant projective measurement on a typical subspace of a tensor power state. We show that, provided the rank of each measurement operator is sufficiently small, the transmitted data will with high probability be decoupled from the channel's environment. We also show that our construction leads to random codes whose average input is close to a product state and outline a modification yielding unitarily invariant ensembles of maximally entangled codes.
Markovian Entanglement Networks<sep>Graphical models of probabilistic dependencies have been extensively investigated in the context of classical uncertainty. However, in some domains (most notably, in computational physics and quantum computing) the nature of the relevant uncertainty is non-classical, and the laws of classical probability theory are superseded by those of quantum mechanics. In this paper we introduce Markovian Entanglement Networks (MEN), a novel class of graphical representations of quantum-mechanical dependencies in the context of such non-classical systems. MEN are the quantum-mechanical analogue of Markovian Networks, a family of undirected graphical representations which, in the classical domain, exploit a notion of conditional independence among subsystems. After defining a notion of conditional independence appropriate to our domain (conditional separability), we prove that the conditional separabilities induced by a quantum-mechanical wave function are effectively reflected in the graphical structure of MEN. Specifically, we show that for any wave function there exists a MEN which is a perfect map of its conditional separabilities. Next, we show how the graphical structure of MEN can be used to effectively classify the pure states of three-qubit systems. We also demonstrate that, in large systems, exploiting conditional independencies may dramatically reduce the computational burden of various inference tasks. In principle, the graph-theoretic representation of conditional independencies afforded by MEN may not only facilitate the classical simulation of quantum systems, but also provide a guide to the efficient design and complexity analysis of quantum algorithms and circuits.
Quantum Key Distribution with Classical Bob<sep>Secure key distribution among two remote parties is impossible when both are classical, unless some unproven (and arguably unrealistic) computation-complexity assumptions are made, such as the difficulty of factorizing large numbers. On the other hand, a secure key distribution is possible when both parties are quantum. What is possible when only one party (Alice) is quantum, yet the other (Bob) has only classical capabilities? We present a protocol with this constraint, and prove its robustness against attacks: we prove that any attempt of an adversary to obtain information (and even a tiny amount of information) necessarily induces some errors that the legitimate users could notice.
Graphs, Quadratic Forms, and Quantum Codes<sep>We show that any stabilizer code over a finite field is equivalent to a graphical quantum code. Furthermore we prove that a graphical quantum code over a finite field is a stabilizer code. The technique used in the proof establishes a new connection between quantum codes and quadratic forms. We provide some simple examples to illustrate our results.
Quantum Convolutional BCH Codes<sep>Quantum convolutional codes can be used to protect a sequence of qubits of arbitrary length against decoherence. We introduce two new families of quantum convolutional codes. Our construction is based on an algebraic method which allows to construct classical convolutional codes from block codes, in particular BCH codes. These codes have the property that they contain their Euclidean, respectively Hermitian, dual codes. Hence, they can be used to define quantum convolutional codes by the stabilizer code construction. We compute BCH-like bounds on the free distances which can be controlled as in the case of block codes, and establish that the codes have non-catastrophic encoders.
Semidefinite programming characterization and spectral adversary method for quantum complexity with noncommuting unitary queries<sep>Generalizing earlier work characterizing the quantum query complexity of computing a function of an unknown classical ``black box'' function drawn from some set of such black box functions, we investigate a more general quantum query model in which the goal is to compute functions of N by N ``black box'' unitary matrices drawn from a set of such matrices, a problem with applications to determining properties of quantum physical systems. We characterize the existence of an algorithm for such a query problem, with given error and number of queries, as equivalent to the feasibility of a certain set of semidefinite programming constraints, or equivalently the infeasibility of a dual of these constraints, which we construct. Relaxing the primal constraints to correspond to mere pairwise near-orthogonality of the final states of a quantum computer, conditional on black-box inputs having distinct function values, rather than bounded-error determinability of the function value via a single measurement on the output states, we obtain a relaxed primal program the feasibility of whose dual still implies the nonexistence of a quantum algorithm. We use this to obtain a generalization, to our not-necessarily-commutative setting, of the ``spectral adversary method'' for quantum query lower bounds.
Quantum Block and Convolutional Codes from Self-orthogonal Product Codes<sep>We present a construction of self-orthogonal codes using product codes. From the resulting codes, one can construct both block quantum error-correcting codes and quantum convolutional codes. We show that from the examples of convolutional codes found, we can derive ordinary quantum error-correcting codes using tail-biting with parameters [[42N,24N,3]]_2. While it is known that the product construction cannot improve the rate in the classical case, we show that this can happen for quantum codes: we show that a code [[15,7,3]]_2 is obtained by the product of a code [[5,1,3]]_2 with a suitable code.
Constructions of Quantum Convolutional Codes<sep>We address the problems of constructing quantum convolutional codes (QCCs) and of encoding them. The first construction is a CSS-type construction which allows us to find QCCs of rate 2/4. The second construction yields a quantum convolutional code by applying a product code construction to an arbitrary classical convolutional code and an arbitrary quantum block code. We show that the resulting codes have highly structured and efficient encoders. Furthermore, we show that the resulting quantum circuits have finite depth, independent of the lengths of the input stream, and show that this depth is polynomial in the degree and frame size of the code.
Classical Interaction Cannot Replace a Quantum Message<sep>We demonstrate a two-player communication problem that can be solved in the one-way quantum model by a 0-error protocol of cost O (log n) but requires exponentially more communication in the classical interactive (bounded error) model.
Is Quantum Bit Commitment Really Possible?<sep>We show that all proposed quantum bit commitment schemes are insecure because the sender, Alice, can almost always cheat successfully by using an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type of attack and delaying her measurement until she opens her commitment.
A decision procedure for unitary linear quantum cellular automata<sep>Linear quantum cellular automata were introduced recently as one of the models of quantum computing. A basic postulate of quantum mechanics imposes a strong constraint on any quantum machine: it has to be unitary, that is its time evolution operator has to be a unitary transformation. In this paper we give an efficient algorithm to decide if a linear quantum cellular automaton is unitary. The complexity of the algorithm is O(n^((3r-1)/(r+1))) = O(n^3) in the algebraic computational model if the automaton has a continuous neighborhood of size r, where $n$ is the size of the input.
A Quantum Algorithm for Finding the Minimum<sep>We give a quantum algorithm to find the index y in a table T of size N such that in time O(c sqrt N), T[y] is minimum with probability at least 1-1/2^c.
Insecurity of Quantum Secure Computations<sep>It had been widely claimed that quantum mechanics can protect private information during public decision in for example the so-called two-party secure computation. If this were the case, quantum smart-cards could prevent fake teller machines from learning the PIN (Personal Identification Number) from the customers' input. Although such optimism has been challenged by the recent surprising discovery of the insecurity of the so-called quantum bit commitment, the security of quantum two-party computation itself remains unaddressed. Here I answer this question directly by showing that all ``one-sided'' two-party computations (which allow only one of the two parties to learn the result) are necessarily insecure. As corollaries to my results, quantum one-way oblivious password identification and the so-called quantum one-out-of-two oblivious transfer are impossible. I also construct a class of functions that cannot be computed securely in any ``two-sided'' two-party computation. Nevertheless, quantum cryptography remains useful in key distribution and can still provide partial security in ``quantum money'' proposed by Wiesner.
Reversible Simulation of Irreversible Computation by Pebble Games<sep>Reversible simulation of irreversible algorithms is analyzed in the stylized form of a `reversible' pebble game. While such simulations incur little overhead in additional computation time, they use a large amount of additional memory space during the computation. The reacheable reversible simulation instantaneous descriptions (pebble configurations) are characterized completely. As a corollary we obtain the reversible simulation by Bennett and that among all simulations that can be modelled by the pebble game, Bennett's simulation is optimal in that it uses the least auxiliary space for the greatest number of simulated steps. One can reduce the auxiliary storage overhead incurred by the reversible simulation at the cost of allowing limited erasing leading to an irreversibility-space tradeoff. We show that in this resource-bounded setting the limited erasing needs to be performed at precise instants during the simulation. We show that the reversible simulation can be modified so that it is applicable also when the simulated computation time is unknown.
Reversibility and Adiabatic Computation: Trading Time and Space for Energy<sep>Future miniaturization and mobilization of computing devices requires energy parsimonious `adiabatic' computation. This is contingent on logical reversibility of computation. An example is the idea of quantum computations which are reversible except for the irreversible observation steps. We propose to study quantitatively the exchange of computational resources like time and space for irreversibility in computations. Reversible simulations of irreversible computations are memory intensive. Such (polynomial time) simulations are analysed here in terms of `reversible' pebble games. We show that Bennett's pebbling strategy uses least additional space for the greatest number of simulated steps. We derive a trade-off for storage space versus irreversible erasure. Next we consider reversible computation itself. An alternative proof is provided for the precise expression of the ultimate irreversibility cost of an otherwise reversible computation without restrictions on time and space use. A time-irreversibility trade-off hierarchy in the exponential time region is exhibited. Finally, extreme time-irreversibility trade-offs for reversible computations in the thoroughly unrealistic range of computable versus noncomputable time-bounds are given.
"Minus c" Symmetry in Classical and Quantum Theories<sep>It is shown that the transformations of the charge conjugation in classical electrodynamics and in quantum theory can be interpreted as the consequences of the symmetry of Maxwell and Dirac equations with respect to the inversion of the speed of light: c to -c; t to t; (x,y,z) to (x,y,z), where c is the speed of light; t is the time; x, y, z are the spatial variables. The elements of physical interpretation are given.
Computing Local Invariants of Qubit Systems<sep>We investigate means to describe the non-local properties of quantum systems and to test if two quantum systems are locally equivalent. For this we consider quantum systems that consist of several subsystems, especially multiple qubits. We compute invariant polynomials, i. e., polynomial functions of the entries of the density operator which are invariant under local unitary operations. As an example, we consider a system of two qubits. We compute the Molien series for the corresponding representation which gives information about the number of linearly independent invariants. Furthermore, we present a set of polynomials which generate all invariants (at least) up to degree 23. Finally, the use of invariants to check whether two density operators are locally equivalent is demonstrated.
Analogue Quantum Computers for Data Analysis<sep>Analogue computers use continuous properties of physical system for modeling. In the paper is described possibility of modeling by analogue quantum computers for some model of data analysis. It is analogue associative memory and a formal neural network. A particularity of the models is combination of continuous internal processes with discrete set of output states. The modeling of the system by classical analogue computers was offered long times ago, but now it is not very effectively in comparison with modern digital computers. The application of quantum analogue modelling looks quite possible for modern level of technology and it may be more effective than digital one, because number of element may be about Avogadro number (N=6.0E23).
Quantum Lower Bounds by Polynomials<sep>We examine the number T of queries that a quantum network requires to compute several Boolean functions on {0,1}^N in the black-box model. We show that, in the black-box model, the exponential quantum speed-up obtained for partial functions (i.e. problems involving a promise on the input) by Deutsch and Jozsa and by Simon cannot be obtained for any total function: if a quantum algorithm computes some total Boolean function f with bounded-error using T black-box queries then there is a classical deterministic algorithm that computes f exactly with O(T^6) queries. We also give asymptotically tight characterizations of T for all symmetric f in the exact, zero-error, and bounded-error settings. Finally, we give new precise bounds for AND, OR, and PARITY. Our results are a quantum extension of the so-called polynomial method, which has been successfully applied in classical complexity theory, and also a quantum extension of results by Nisan about a polynomial relationship between randomized and deterministic decision tree complexity.
1-way quantum finite automata: strengths, weaknesses and generalizations<sep>We study 1-way quantum finite automata (QFAs). First, we compare them with their classical counterparts. We show that, if an automaton is required to give the correct answer with a large probability (over 0.98), then the power of 1-way QFAs is equal to the power of 1-way reversible automata. However, quantum automata giving the correct answer with smaller probabilities are more powerful than reversible automata. Second, we show that 1-way QFAs can be very space-efficient. Namely, we construct a 1-way QFA which is exponentially smaller than any equivalent classical (even randomized) finite automaton. This construction may be useful for design of other space-efficient quantum algorithms. Third, we consider several generalizations of 1-way QFAs. Here, our goal is to find a model which is more powerful than 1-way QFAs keeping the quantum part as simple as possible.
Dense Quantum Coding and a Lower Bound for 1-way Quantum Automata<sep>We consider the possibility of encoding m classical bits into much fewer n quantum bits so that an arbitrary bit from the original m bits can be recovered with a good probability, and we show that non-trivial quantum encodings exist that have no classical counterparts. On the other hand, we show that quantum encodings cannot be much more succint as compared to classical encodings, and we provide a lower bound on such quantum encodings. Finally, using this lower bound, we prove an exponential lower bound on the size of 1-way quantum finite automata for a family of languages accepted by linear sized deterministic finite automata.
The quantum query complexity of approximating the median and related statistics<sep>Let X = (x_0,...,x_{n-1})$ be a sequence of n numbers. For epsilon > 0, we say that x_i is an epsilon-approximate median if the number of elements strictly less than x_i, and the number of elements strictly greater than x_i are each less than (1+ epsilon)n/2. We consider the quantum query complexity of computing an epsilon-approximate median, given the sequence X as an oracle. We prove a lower bound of Omega( min{{1/ epsilon},n}) queries for any quantum algorithm that computes an epsilon-approximate median with any constant probability greater than 1/2. We also show how an epsilon-approximate median may be computed with O({1/ epsilon} log({1 / epsilon}) log log({1/ epsilon})) oracle queries, which represents an improvement over an earlier algorithm due to Grover. Thus, the lower bound we obtain is essentially optimal. The upper and the lower bound both hold in the comparison tree model as well. Our lower bound result is an application of the polynomial paradigm recently introduced to quantum complexity theory by Beals et al. The main ingredient in the proof is a polynomial degree lower bound for real multilinear polynomials that ``approximate'' symmetric partial boolean functions. The degree bound extends a result of Paturi and also immediately yields lower bounds for the problems of approximating the kth-smallest element, approximating the mean of a sequence of numbers, and that of approximately counting the number of ones of a boolean function. All bounds obtained come within polylogarithmic factors of the optimal (as we show by presenting algorithms where no such optimal or near optimal algorithms were known), thus demonstrating the power of the polynomial method.
Quantum Oracle Interrogation: Getting all information for almost half the price<sep>Consider a quantum computer in combination with a binary oracle of domain size N. It is shown how N/2+sqrt(N) calls to the oracle are sufficient to guess the whole content of the oracle (being an N bit string) with probability greater than 95%. This contrasts the power of classical computers which would require N calls to achieve the same task. From this result it follows that any function with the N bits of the oracle as input can be calculated using N/2+sqrt(N) queries if we allow a small probability of error. It is also shown that this error probability can be made arbitrary small by using N/2+O(sqrt(N)) oracle queries. In the second part of the article `approximate interrogation' is considered. This is when only a certain fraction of the N oracle bits are requested. Also for this scenario does the quantum algorithm outperform the classical protocols. An example is given where a quantum procedure with N/10 queries returns a string of which 80% of the bits are correct. Any classical protocol would need 6N/10 queries to establish such a correctness ratio.
Two Classical Queries versus One Quantum Query<sep>In this note we study the power of so called query-limited computers. We compare the strength of a classical computer that is allowed to ask two questions to an NP-oracle with the strength of a quantum computer that is allowed only one such query. It is shown that any decision problem that requires two parallel (non-adaptive) SAT-queries on a classical computer can also be solved exactly by a quantum computer using only one SAT-oracle call, where both computations have polynomial time-complexity. Such a simulation is generally believed to be impossible for a one-query classical computer. The reduction also does not hold if we replace the SAT-oracle by a general black-box. This result gives therefore an example of how a quantum computer is probably more powerful than a classical computer. It also highlights the potential differences between quantum complexity results for general oracles when compared to results for more structured tasks like the SAT-problem.
Fast Quantum Fourier Transforms for a Class of Non-abelian Groups<sep>An algorithm is presented allowing the construction of fast Fourier transforms for any solvable group on a classical computer. The special structure of the recursion formula being the core of this algorithm makes it a good starting point to obtain systematically fast Fourier transforms for solvable groups on a quantum computer. The inherent structure of the Hilbert space imposed by the qubit architecture suggests to consider groups of order 2^n first (where n is the number of qubits). As an example, fast quantum Fourier transforms for all 4 classes of non-abelian 2-groups with cyclic normal subgroup of index 2 are explicitly constructed in terms of quantum circuits. The (quantum) complexity of the Fourier transform for these groups of size 2^n is O(n^2) in all cases.
An Introduction to Quantum Computing for Non-Physicists<sep>Richard Feynman's observation that quantum mechanical effects could not be simulated efficiently on a computer led to speculation that computation in general could be done more efficiently if it used quantum effects. This speculation appeared justified when Peter Shor described a polynomial time quantum algorithm for factoring integers. In quantum systems, the computational space increases exponentially with the size of the system which enables exponential parallelism. This parallelism could lead to exponentially faster quantum algorithms than possible classically. The catch is that accessing the results, which requires measurement, proves tricky and requires new non-traditional programming techniques. The aim of this paper is to guide computer scientists and other non-physicists through the conceptual and notational barriers that separate quantum computing from conventional computing. We introduce basic principles of quantum mechanics to explain where the power of quantum computers comes from and why it is difficult to harness. We describe quantum cryptography, teleportation, and dense coding. Various approaches to harnessing the power of quantum parallelism are explained, including Shor's algorithm, Grover's algorithm, and Hogg's algorithms. We conclude with a discussion of quantum error correction.
Concatenating Decoherence Free Subspaces with Quantum Error Correcting Codes<sep>An operator sum representation is derived for a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) and used to (i) show that DFSs are the class of quantum error correcting codes (QECCs) with fixed, unitary recovery operators, and (ii) find explicit representations for the Kraus operators of collective decoherence. We demonstrate how this can be used to construct a concatenated DFS-QECC code which protects against collective decoherence perturbed by independent decoherence. The code yields an error threshold which depends only on the perturbing independent decoherence rate.
Classical Trajectories for two Ring-Shaped Potentials<sep>This paper deals with the classical trajectories for two super-integrable systems: a system known in quantum chemistry as the Hartmann system and a system of potential use in quantum chemistry and nuclear physics. Both systems correspond to ring-shaped potentials. They admit two maximally super-integrable systems as limiting cases, viz, the isotropic harmonic oscillator system and the Coulomb-Kepler system in three dimensions. The planarity of the trajectories is studied in a systematic way. In general, the trajectories are quasi-periodic rather than periodic. A constraint condition allows to pass from quasi-periodic motions to periodic ones. When written in a quantum mechanical context, this constraint condition leads to new accidental degeneracies for the two systems studied.
Coin Tossing is Strictly Weaker Than Bit Commitment<sep>We define cryptographic assumptions applicable to two mistrustful parties who each control two or more separate secure sites between which special relativity guarantees a time lapse in communication. We show that, under these assumptions, unconditionally secure coin tossing can be carried out by exchanges of classical information. We show also, following Mayers, Lo and Chau, that unconditionally secure bit commitment cannot be carried out by finitely many exchanges of classical or quantum information. Finally we show that, under standard cryptographic assumptions, coin tossing is strictly weaker than bit commitment. That is, no secure classical or quantum bit commitment protocol can be built from a finite number of invocations of a secure coin tossing black box together with finitely many additional information exchanges.
Unconditionally Secure Bit Commitment<sep>We describe a new classical bit commitment protocol based on cryptographic constraints imposed by special relativity. The protocol is unconditionally secure against classical or quantum attacks. It evades the no-go results of Mayers, Lo and Chau by requiring from Alice a sequence of communications, including a post-revelation verification, each of which is guaranteed to be independent of its predecessor.
Minimal coupling and Feynman's proof<sep>The non quantum relativistic version of the proof of Feynman for the Maxwell equations is discussed in a framework with a minimum number of hypotheses required. From the present point of view it is clear that the classical equations of motion corresponding to the gauge field interactions can be deduced from the minimal coupling rule, and we claim here resides the essence of the proof of Feynman.
Lower Bounds for Quantum Search and Derandomization<sep>We prove lower bounds on the error probability of a quantum algorithm for searching through an unordered list of N items, as a function of the number T of queries it makes. In particular, if T=O(sqrt{N}) then the error is lower bounded by a constant. If we want error <1/2^N then we need T=Omega(N) queries. We apply this to show that a quantum computer cannot do much better than a classical computer when amplifying the success probability of an RP-machine. A classical computer can achieve error <=1/2^k using k applications of the RP-machine, a quantum computer still needs at least ck applications for this (when treating the machine as a black-box), where c>0 is a constant independent of k. Furthermore, we prove a lower bound of Omega(sqrt{log N}/loglog N) queries for quantum bounded-error search of an ordered list of N items.
A Quick Glance at Quantum Cryptography<sep>The recent application of the principles of quantum mechanics to cryptography has led to a remarkable new dimension in secret communication. As a result of these new developments, it is now possible to construct cryptographic communication systems which detect unauthorized eavesdropping should it occur, and which give a guarantee of no eavesdropping should it not occur. CONTENTS P3. Cryptographic systems before quantum cryptography P7. Preamble to quantum cryptography P10. The BB84 quantum cryptographic protocol without noise P16. The BB84 quantum cryptographic protocol with noise P19..The B92 quantum cryptographic protocol P21. EPR quantum cryptographic protocols P25. Other protocols P25. Eavesdropping stategies and counter measures P26. Conclusion P29. Appendix A. The no cloning theorem P30. Appendix B. Proof that an undetectable eavesdropper can obtain no information from the B92 protocol P31. Appendix C. Part of a Rosetta stone for quantum mechanics P44. References
A note on quantum black-box complexity of almost all Boolean functions<sep>We show that, for almost all N-variable Boolean functions f, at least N/4-O( sqrt{N} log N) queries are required to compute f in quantum black-box model with bounded error.
Non-equal-time Poisson brackets<sep>The standard definition of the Poisson brackets is generalized to the non-equal-time Poisson brackets. Their relationship to the equal-time Poisson brackets, as well as to the equal- and non-equal-time commutators, is discussed.
NQP_{C} = co-C_{=}P<sep>Adleman, DeMarrais, and Huang introduced the nondeterministic quantum polynomial-time complexity class NQP as an analogue of NP. Fortnow and Rogers implicitly showed that, when the amplitudes are rational numbers, NQP is contained in the complement of C_{=}P. Fenner, Green, Homer, and Pruim improved this result by showing that, when the amplitudes are arbitrary algebraic numbers, NQP coincides with co-C_{=}P. In this paper we prove that, even when the amplitudes are arbitrary complex numbers, NQP still remains identical to co-C_{=}P. As an immediate corollary, BQP differs from NQP when the amplitudes are unrestricted.
Polynomial-Time Solution to the Hidden Subgroup Problem for a Class of non-abelian Groups<sep>We present a family of non-abelian groups for which the hidden subgroup problem can be solved efficiently on a quantum computer.
A better lower bound for quantum algorithms searching an ordered list<sep>We show that any quantum algorithm searching an ordered list of n elements needs to examine at least 1/12 log n-O(1) of them. Classically, log n queries are both necessary and sufficient. This shows that quantum algorithms can achieve only a constant speedup for this problem. Our result improves lower bounds of Buhrman and de Wolf(quant-ph/9811046) and Farhi, Goldstone, Gutmann and Sipser (quant-ph/9812057).
Quantum Bounded Query Complexity<sep>We combine the classical notions and techniques for bounded query classes with those developed in quantum computing. We give strong evidence that quantum queries to an oracle in the class NP does indeed reduce the query complexity of decision problems. Under traditional complexity assumptions, we obtain an exponential speedup between the quantum and the classical query complexity of function classes. For decision problems and function classes we obtain the following results: o P_||^NP[2k] is included in EQP_||^NP[k] o P_||^NP[2^(k+1)-2] is included in EQP^NP[k] o FP_||^NP[2^(k+1)-2] is included in FEQP^NP[2k] o FP_||^NP is included in FEQP^NP[O(log n)] For sets A that are many-one complete for PSPACE or EXP we show that FP^A is included in FEQP^A[1]. Sets A that are many-one complete for PP have the property that FP_||^A is included in FEQP^A[1]. In general we prove that for any set A there is a set X such that FP^A is included in FEQP^X[1], establishing that no set is superterse in the quantum setting.
An Almost-Quadratic Lower Bound for Quantum Formula Size<sep>We show that Nechiporuk's method for proving lower bound for Boolean formulas can be extended to the quantum case. This leads to an n^2 / log^2 n lower bound for quantum formulas computing an explicit function. The only known previous explicit lower bound for quantum formulas (by Yao) states that the majority function does not have a linear-size quantum formula.
A Computer Scientist's View of Life, the Universe, and Everything<sep>Is the universe computable? If so, it may be much cheaper in terms of information requirements to compute all computable universes instead of just ours. I apply basic concepts of Kolmogorov complexity theory to the set of possible universes, and chat about perceived and true randomness, life, generalization, and learning in a given universe.
Probabilities to accept languages by quantum finite automata<sep>We construct a hierarchy of regular languages such that the current language in the hierarchy can be accepted by 1-way quantum finite automata with a probability smaller than the corresponding probability for the preceding language in the hierarchy. These probabilities converge to 1/2.
Average-Case Quantum Query Complexity<sep>We compare classical and quantum query complexities of total Boolean functions. It is known that for worst-case complexity, the gap between quantum and classical can be at most polynomial. We show that for average-case complexity under the uniform distribution, quantum algorithms can be exponentially faster than classical algorithms. Under non-uniform distributions the gap can even be super-exponential. We also prove some general bounds for average-case complexity and show that the average-case quantum complexity of MAJORITY under the uniform distribution is nearly quadratically better than the classical complexity.
A simple proof of the unconditional security of quantum key distribution<sep>Quantum key distribution is the most well-known application of quantum cryptography. Previous proposed proofs of security of quantum key distribution contain various technical subtleties. Here, a conceptually simpler proof of security of quantum key distribution is presented. The new insight is the invariance of the error rate of a teleportation channel: We show that the error rate of a teleportation channel is independent of the signals being transmitted. This is because the non-trivial error patterns are permuted under teleportation. This new insight is combined with the recently proposed quantum to classical reduction theorem. Our result shows that assuming that Alice and Bob have fault-tolerant quantum computers, quantum key distribution can be made unconditionally secure over arbitrarily long distances even against the most general type of eavesdropping attacks and in the presence of all types of noises.
Optimal lower bounds for quantum automata and random access codes<sep>Consider the finite regular language L_n = {w0 : w in {0,1}^*, |w| le n}. It was shown by Ambainis, Nayak, Ta-Shma and Vazirani that while this language is accepted by a deterministic finite automaton of size O(n), any one-way quantum finite automaton (QFA) for it has size 2^{Omega(n/log n)}. This was based on the fact that the evolution of a QFA is required to be reversible. When arbitrary intermediate measurements are allowed, this intuition breaks down. Nonetheless, we show a 2^{Omega(n)} lower bound for such QFA for L_n, thus also improving the previous bound. The improved bound is obtained by simple entropy arguments based on Holevo's theorem. This method also allows us to obtain an asymptotically optimal (1-H(p))n bound for the dense quantum codes (random access codes) introduced by Ambainis et al. We then turn to Holevo's theorem, and show that in typical situations, it may be replaced by a tighter and more transparent in-probability bound.
Self-Testing of Universal and Fault-Tolerant Sets of Quantum Gates<sep>We consider the design of self-testers for quantum gates. A self-tester for the gates F_1,...,F_m is a classical procedure that, given any gates G_1,...,G_m, decides with high probability if each G_i is close to F_i. This decision has to rely only on measuring in the computational basis the effect of iterating the gates on the classical states. It turns out that instead of individual gates, we can only design procedures for families of gates. To achieve our goal we borrow some elegant ideas of the theory of program testing: we characterize the gate families by specific properties, we develop a theory of robustness for them, and show that they lead to self-testers. In particular we prove that the universal and fault-tolerant set of gates consisting of a Hadamard gate, a c-NOT gate, and a phase rotation gate of angle pi/4 is self-testable.
Quantum finite multitape automata<sep>Quantum finite automata were introduced by C.Moore, J.P. Crutchfield, and by A.Kondacs and J.Watrous. This notion is not a generalization of the deterministic finite automata. Moreover, it was proved that not all regular languages can be recognized by quantum finite automata. A.Ambainis and R.Freivalds proved that for some languages quantum finite automata may be exponentially more concise rather than both deterministic and probabilistic finite automata. In this paper we introduce the notion of quantum finite multitape automata and prove that there is a language recognized by a quantum finite automaton but not by a deterministic or probabilistic finite automata. This is the first result on a problem which can be solved by a quantum computer but not by a deterministic or probabilistic computer. Additionally we discover unexpected probabilistic automata recognizing complicated languages.
Operation of universal gates in a DXD superconducting solid state quantum computer<sep>We demonstrate that complete set of gates can be realized in a DXD superconducting solid state quantum computer (quamputer), thereby proving its universality.
A Foundation of Programming a Multi-Tape Quantum Turing machine<sep>The notion of quantum Turing machines is a basis of quantum complexity theory. We discuss a general model of multi-tape, multi-head Quantum Turing machines with multi final states that also allow tape heads to stay still.
Secure Classical Bit Commitment using Fixed Capacity Communication Channels<sep>If mutually mistrustful parties A and B control two or more appropriately located sites, special relativity can be used to guarantee that a pair of messages exchanged by A and B are independent. In earlier work, we used this fact to define a relativistic bit commitment protocol, RBC1, in which security is maintained by exchanging a sequence of messages whose transmission rate increases exponentially in time. We define here a new relativistic protocol, RBC2, which requires only a constant transmission rate and could be practically implemented. We prove that RBC2 allows a bit commitment to be indefinitely maintained with unconditional security against all classical attacks. We examine its security against quantum attacks, and show that it is immune from the class of attacks shown by Mayers and Lo-Chau to render non-relativistic quantum bit commitment protocols insecure.
Structure behind Mechanics<sep>This paper proposes a basic theory on physical reality, and a new foundation for quantum mechanics and classical mechanics. It does not only solve the problem of the arbitrariness on the operator ordering for the quantization procedure, but also clarifies how the classical-limit occurs. It further compares the new theory with the known quantization methods, and proposes a self-consistent interpretation for quantum mechanics. It also provides the internal structure inducing half-integer spin of a particle, the sense of the regularization in the quantum field theory, the quantization of a phenomenological system, the causality in quantum mechanics and the origin of the thermodynamic irreversibility under the new insight.
The importance of quantum decoherence in brain processes<sep>Based on a calculation of neural decoherence rates, we argue that that the degrees of freedom of the human brain that relate to cognitive processes should be thought of as a classical rather than quantum system, i.e., that there is nothing fundamentally wrong with the current classical approach to neural network simulations. We find that the decoherence timescales ~10^{-13}-10^{-20} seconds are typically much shorter than the relevant dynamical timescales (~0.001-0.1 seconds), both for regular neuron firing and for kink-like polarization excitations in microtubules. This conclusion disagrees with suggestions by Penrose and others that the brain acts as a quantum computer, and that quantum coherence is related to consciousness in a fundamental way.
Analysis of Quantum Functions<sep>This paper initiates a systematic study of quantum functions, which are (partial) functions defined in terms of quantum mechanical computations. Of all quantum functions, we focus on resource-bounded quantum functions whose inputs are classical bit strings. We prove complexity-theoretical properties and unique characteristics of these quantum functions by recent techniques developed for the analysis of quantum computations. We also discuss relativized quantum functions that make adaptive and nonadaptive oracle queries.
Quantum Computation and Quadratically Signed Weight Enumerators<sep>We prove that quantum computation is polynomially equivalent to classical probabilistic computation with an oracle for estimating the value of simple sums, quadratically signed weight enumerators. The problem of estimating these sums can be cast in terms of promise problems and has two interesting variants. An oracle for the unconstrained variant may be more powerful than quantum computation, while an oracle for a more constrained variant is efficiently solvable in the one-bit model of quantum computation. Thus, problems involving estimation of quadratically signed weight enumerators yield problems in BQP (bounded error quantum polynomial time) that are distinct from the ones studied so far, include a canonical BQP complete problem, and can be used to define and study complexity classes and their relationships to quantum computation.
Almost-Everywhere Superiority for Quantum Computing<sep>Simon as extended by Brassard and H{ o}yer shows that there are tasks on which polynomial-time quantum machines are exponentially faster than each classical machine infinitely often. The present paper shows that there are tasks on which polynomial-time quantum machines are exponentially faster than each classical machine almost everywhere.
Transition Radiation and the Origin of Sonoluminescence<sep>It has been shown by Liberati et al. [quant-ph/9904013] that a dielectric medium with a time-dependent refractive index may produce photons. We point out that a free electric charge which interacts with such a medium will emit quantum mechanically modified transition radiation in which an arbitrary odd number of photons will be present. Excited atomic electrons will also exhibit a similarly modified emission spectrum. This effect may be directly observable in connection with sonoluminescence.
Unconditionally Secure Commitment of a Certified Classical Bit is Impossible<sep>In a secure bit commitment protocol involving only classical physics, A commits either a 0 or a 1 to B. If quantum information is used in the protocol, A may be able to commit a state of the form $ alpha ket{0} + beta ket{1}$. If so, she can also commit mixed states in which the committed bit is entangled with other quantum states under her control. We introduce here a quantum cryptographic primitive, { it bit commitment with a certificate of classicality} (BCCC), which differs from standard bit commitment in that it guarantees that the committed state has a fixed classical value. We show that no unconditionally secure BCCC protocol based on special relativity and quantum theory exists. We also propose complete definitions of security for quantum and relativistic bit commitment.
Cheat Sensitive Quantum Bit Commitment<sep>We define cheat sensitive cryptographic protocols between mistrustful parties as protocols which guarantee that, if either cheats, the other has some nonzero probability of detecting the cheating. We give an example of an unconditionally secure cheat sensitive non-relativistic bit commitment protocol which uses quantum information to implement a task which is classically impossible; we also describe a simple relativistic protocol.
Quantum Computing, NP-complete Problems and Chaotic Dynamics<sep>An approach to the solution of NP-complete problems based on quantum computing and chaotic dynamics is proposed. We consider the satisfiability problem and argue that the problem, in principle, can be solved in polynomial time if we combine the quantum computer with the chaotic dynamics amplifier based on the logistic map. We discuss a possible implementation of such a chaotic quantum computation by using the atomic quantum computer with quantum gates described by the Hartree-Fock equations. In this case, in principle, one can build not only standard linear quantum gates but also nonlinear gates and moreover they obey to Fermi statistics. This new type of entaglement related with Fermi statistics can be interesting also for quantum communication theory.
Leading Order Temporal Asymptotics of the Modified Non-Linear Schrodinger Equation: Solitonless Sector<sep>Using the matrix Riemann-Hilbert factorisation approach for non-linear evolution equations (NLEEs) integrable in the sense of the inverse scattering method, we obtain, in the solitonless sector, the leading-order asymptotics as $t$ tends to plus and minus infinity of the solution to the Cauchy initial-value problem for the modified non-linear Schrodinger equation: also obtained are analogous results for two gauge-equivalent NLEEs; in particular, the derivative non-linear Schrodinger equation.
